Add common_gram token filter page #7923 (#7933)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _analyzers/token-filters/common_gram.md

---
layout: default
title: common_grams
parent: Token filters
nav_order: 60
---
<!-- vale off -->
# Common_grams token filter
<!-- vale on -->

> The `common_grams` token filter in OpenSearch improves search relevance by keeping commonly occurring phrases (common grams) in the text. This is useful when dealing with languages or datasets where certain word combinations frequently occur and can impact the search relevance if treated as separate tokens.

Reviewer: I think it would be good to explicitly specify here that this token filter generates unigrams and bigrams , if only common words are present.

Using this token filter improves search relevance by keeping common phrases intact, it can help in matching queries more accurately, particularly for frequent word combinations. It also improves search precision by reducing the number of irrelevant matches.

Using this filter requires careful selection and maintenance of the list of common words
{: .warning}

## Parameters

`common_grams` token filter can be configured with several parameters to control its behavior.

Parameter | Description | Example

> `common_words` | A list of words that should be considered as common words. These words will be used to form common grams. (Required) | ["the", "and", "of"]

Reviewer: NOTE:When the common_words parameter is given an empty list, the common_grams token filter essentially becomes a pass-through filter, meaning it doesn't modify the input tokens at all.

`ignore_case` | Indicates whether the filter should ignore case differences when matching common words. | `true` or `false` (Default: `false`)

> `query_mode` | When set to true, the filter only emits common grams during the analysis phase (useful during query time to ensure the query matches documents analyzed with the same filter). | `true` or `false` (Default: `false`)

Reviewer: When query_mode is set, the token output follows these guidelines:

  -   unigrams that are common_words are not included in the output.

 -    bigrams where a non-common word is followed by a common_word are retained in the output.

  -   unigrams of non-common words are excluded if they're immediately followed by a common_word.

  -   If a non-common word appears at the end of the text and is preceded by a common word, its unigram is also not included in the output.

---
layout: default
title: Common grams
parent: Token filters
nav_order: 60
---
<!-- vale off -->
# Common grams token filter
<!-- vale on -->

> The `common_grams` token filter in OpenSearch improves search relevance by keeping commonly occurring phrases (common grams) in the text. This is useful when dealing with languages or datasets where certain word combinations frequently occur as a unit and can impact the search relevance if treated as separate tokens. If any common words are present in the input string, this token filter generates both their unigrams and bigrams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `common_grams` token filter improves search relevance by keeping commonly occurring phrases (common grams) in the text. This is useful when dealing with languages or datasets in which certain word combinations frequently occur as a unit and can impact search relevance if treated as separate tokens. If any common words are present in the input string, this token filter generates both their unigrams and bigrams.
```

Using this token filter improves search relevance by keeping common phrases intact. This can help in matching queries more accurately, particularly for frequent word combinations. It also improves search precision by reducing the number of irrelevant matches.

When using this filter, you must carefully select and maintain the `common_words` list.
{: .warning}

## Parameters

The `common_grams` token filter can be configured with the following parameters.

Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- 

> `common_words` | Required | List of strings | A list of words that should be considered as words appearing together. These words will be used to generate common grams. If the `common_words` parameter is an empty list, the `common_grams` token filter becomes a no-op filter, meaning it doesn't modify the input tokens at all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`common_words` | Required | List of strings | A list of words that should be treated as words appearing together. These words will be used to generate common grams. If the `common_words` parameter is an empty list, the `common_grams` token filter becomes a no-op filter, meaning that it doesn't modify the input tokens at all.
```

> `ignore_case` | Optional | Boolean |  Indicates whether the filter should ignore case differences when matching common words. Default is `false`.

Reviewer 2: Can we make "treated as words appearing together" a bit more precise? Appearing together how/in what way?

Reviewer 3: Commonly appearing together? This is physically together, like in a phrase.

Reviewer 2: "treated as words that commonly appear together"?

> `query_mode` | Optional | Boolean | When set to `true`, the following rules are applied:<br>- Unigrams that are generated from `common_words` are not included in the output.<br>- Bigrams in which a non-common word is followed by common word are retained in the output.<br>- Unigrams of non-common words are excluded if they are immediately followed by a common word.<br>- If a non-common word appears at the end of the text and is preceded by a common word, its unigram is not included in the output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`query_mode` | Optional | Boolean | When set to `true`, the following rules are applied:<br>- Unigrams that are generated from `common_words` are not included in the output.<br>- Bigrams in which a non-common word is followed by a common word are retained in the output.<br>- Unigrams of non-common words are excluded if they are immediately followed by a common word.<br>- If a non-common word appears at the end of the text and is preceded by a common word, its unigram is not included in the output.
```

---
layout: default
title: common_grams
parent: Token filters
nav_order: 60
---
<!-- vale off -->
# Common_grams token filter
<!-- vale on -->

> The `common_grams` token filter in OpenSearch improves search relevance by keeping commonly occurring phrases (common grams) in the text. This is useful when dealing with languages or datasets where certain word combinations frequently occur and can impact the search relevance if treated as separate tokens. If only common words are present in the input string, this token filter generates both unigrams and bigrams.

Reviewer: >If only common words are present in the input string

if *any* common words are present in the input string

> Using this token filter improves search relevance by keeping common phrases intact, it can help in matching queries more accurately, particularly for frequent word combinations. It also improves search precision by reducing the number of irrelevant matches.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using this token filter improves search relevance by keeping common phrases intact. This can help in matching queries more accurately, particularly for frequent word combinations. It also improves search precision by reducing the number of irrelevant matches.
```

> Using this filter requires careful selection and maintenance of the list of common words

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When using this filter, you must carefully select and maintain of the `common_words` list.
```

{: .warning}

## Parameters

The `common_grams` token filter can be configured with the following parameters:

> - `common_words`: A list of words that should be considered as common words. These words will be used to form common grams. If the `common_words` parameter is given an empty list, the `common_grams` token filter becomes a pass-through filter, meaning it doesn't modify the input tokens at all. (List of strings, _Required_)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `common_words` (List of strings, _Required_): A list of words that should be considered as words appearing together. These words will be used to generate common grams. If the `common_words` parameter is an empty list, the `common_grams` token filter becomes a no-op filter, meaning it doesn't modify the input tokens at all. 
```

> - `ignore_case`: Indicates whether the filter should ignore case differences when matching common words. Default is `false`. (Boolean, _Optional_)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `ignore_case` (Boolean, _Optional_): Indicates whether the filter should ignore case differences when matching common words. Default is `false`. 
```

> - `query_mode`: When set to `true` the following rules are applied:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `query_mode` (Boolean, _Optional_): When set to `true`, the following rules are applied:
```

>   - unigrams that are common_words are not included in the output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - unigrams that are generated from `common_words` are not included in the output.
```

>   - bigrams where a non-common word is followed by a common_word are retained in the output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - bigrams in which a non-common word is followed by common word are retained in the output.
```

>   - unigrams of non-common words are excluded if they're immediately followed by a common_word.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - unigrams of non-common words are excluded if they are immediately followed by a common word.
```

>   - If a non-common word appears at the end of the text and is preceded by a common word, its unigram is also not included in the output. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - If a non-common word appears at the end of the text and is preceded by a common word, its unigram is not included in the output. 
```

>   Default: `false` (Boolean, _Optional_)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
